# Challenge 2: Develop an App with GitHub Copilot - Solution Guide

## Task 1: Develop an App

1. Login to GitHub with the CloudLabs provided GitHub account.

1. Navigate to the below provided link and fork the repository in to the CloudLabs provided GitHub account.

      ```
      https://github.com/CloudLabsAI-Azure/CloudLabs-CRUD-application
      ```

1. Open Visual Studio.

1. Login to Visual Studio with the CloudLabs provided GitHub account.

1. Once logged in, click on "Clone a repository" then click on "Github" under Browse a repository.

1. Select the repository you had forked earlier and then click on "Clone".

1. Once the repository is cloned, in the Solution Explorer double click on the Contact Database application.sln file.

1. Now expand the Controllers folder and double click on the UserController.cs file.

1. In this file you will see multiple empty methods, let's ask GitHub Copilot to fill in the methods one by one.

1. Select/highlight the lines of the Index method and right click, select ask Copilot option in the options.

1. In the Prompt box, type "Fill in the Index method".

1. GitHub Copilot will generate a suggestion, you can review the suggestion generated by GitHub Copilot and either Accept or Discard the suggestion.

1. Likewise, we can use GitHub Copilot to fill in all the methods in the UserController.cs file. Let's do it for Details method. Highlight the lines of the Details method and right click on it, then select ask Copilot in the options. 

1. In the Prompt box, type "Fill in the Details method" or any other relevant prompt asking GitHub Copilot to generate the code for the method.

    **Similarly we need to do it for all the methods.**

1. Once all the methods are filled using GitHub Copilot, click on the IIS Express to run the application. The application will start on localhost on a browser.

1. Test out all the functionality of the application, let's start by clicking on Create New to create a new contact.

1. Fill in the Name and Email in the respective boxes and click on Create button.

1. Once created, you should see the entry for the new contact you just created.

1. Let's try to edit the contact by clicking on the Edit button.

1. Change the Name or the Email of the contact as you like and then click on save to save the changes made to the contact.

1. Now lets check if the Details functionality works as expected by clicking on Details for the contact.

1. Once verified that the Details functionality is working as expected, click on back to list button to go back to the Index page.

1. Now let us try to delete the contact created by clicking on Delete button.

1. Click on Delete button to confirm the deletion of the contact. 

1. Verify that the contact entry was deleted and is not present in the Index page.